Baahubali 2: The Conclusion is a 2017 Indian epic action film directed by S. S. Rajamouli who co-wrote the film with K. V. Vijayendra Prasad. It was produced by Shobu Yarlagadda and Prasad Devineni under the banner Arka Media Works. Simultaneously made in Telugu and Tamil languages, the film features an ensemble cast including Prabhas, Rana Daggubati, Anushka Shetty, Tamannaah, Ramya Krishna, Sathyaraj, Nassar, and Subbaraju. The second cinematic part in the Baahubali franchise, it is the follow-up to Baahubali: The Beginning, serving as both a sequel and a prequel. The film is set in medieval India and follows the sibling rivalry between Amarendra Baahubali and Bhallaladeva; the latter conspires against the former and has him killed by Kattappa. Years later, Amarendra's son returns to avenge his death. Made on an estimated budget of ₹2.5 billion, the production was launched on 17 December 2015 at Ramoji Film City, Hyderabad. The cinematography was done by K. K. Senthil Kumar, and was edited by Kotagiri Venkateswara Rao. The production design was done by Sabu Cyril, while the action sequences were choreographed by Peter Hein. The visual effects were designed by R. C. Kamalakannan, with assistance from Adel Adili and Pete Draper. The soundtrack and the background music were composed by M. M. Keeravani. The Conclusion was released on 28 April 2017 and later dubbed into Hindi, Malayalam, Japanese, Russian and Chinese. Released in conventional 2D and IMAX formats, The Conclusion was the first Telugu film to also release in 4K High Definition format. Grossing ₹1,796.56 crore worldwide, The Conclusion surpassed PK (2014) to briefly become the highest grossing Indian film of all time, collecting approximately ₹8 billion worldwide within just six days of its release. It became the first-ever Indian film to gross over ₹10 billion, doing so in just ten days. Within India, it set many film records, becoming the highest-grossing film in Hindi, as well as in its original Telugu and Tamil languages. It stands as the highest grossing film in India, the second highest-grossing Indian film worldwide and the 39th highest-grossing film of 2017. The film sold an estimated 100 million tickets (all languages combined) during its box office run, the highest estimated footfall for any film in India since Sholay (1975). The Conclusion released to positive reviews from critics. It was also praised by the actors of the film industry alike. The Conclusion has garnered the American Saturn Award for Best International Film, and the Australian Telstra People's Choice Award. It won three National Film Awards: Best Popular Film Providing Wholesome Entertainment, Best Special Effects and Best Stunt Choreographer. The Conclusion was premiered at the British Film Institute, and was the inaugural feature film at the 39th Moscow International Film Festival. It is showcased in the "Indian Panorama" section of the 48th International Film Festival of India.
