Lucifer is a 2019 Indian Malayalam-language action film directed by Prithviraj Sukumaran and written by Murali Gopy. Produced by Antony Perumbavoor through the production house Aashirvad Cinemas, the film marks Prithviraj's directorial debut and features Mohanlal in the lead role, alongside a supporting cast including Vivek Oberoi, Manju Warrier, Tovino Thomas, Indrajith Sukumaran, Saniya Iyappan, Sai Kumar, Baiju Santhosh, Kalabhavan Shajohn, Prithviraj Sukumaran and Nyla Usha. Deepak Dev composed the film's music, and the cinematography was handled by Sujith Vaassudev. Development of the film began in 2016 when Murali pitched a story to Prithviraj at the sets of Tiyaan in Ramoji Film City, it was when he decided to make Lucifer his directorial debut. Title of the film was taken from an unrealised project of director Rajesh Pillai which was also written by Murali with another story. Pre-production of Lucifer began in 2017 and Murali completed the final draft of the screenplay in February 2018. Principal photography began in mid-July that year and lasted till January 2019, with filming carried out in Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki, Ernakulam, and Kollam districts, and Mumbai, Bangalore, Lakshadweep, and Russia. Lucifer was released in theatres worldwide on 28 March 2019. It was also dubbed and released in Tamil and Telugu. The film broke many box office records for a Malayalam film, crossing the ₹50 crore (US$7.0 million) mark in four days, ₹100 crore (US$14 million) mark in eight days, and the ₹150 crore (US$21 million) mark in 21 days becoming the fastest Malayalam film to reach all three milestones. As of July 2021, Lucifer is the only Malayalam film to earn more than ₹200 crore, including its box office collections and the earnings from the sale of its satellite rights, digital streaming rights and TV rights in other languages. It is currently the highest-grossing Malayalam film ever, beating Pulimurugan. Lucifer is the first installment in a trilogy and will be followed by L2:Empuraan and an untitled sequel, which are in development.
