3 Idiots is a 2009 Indian Hindi-language coming-of-age comedy-drama film directed by Rajkumar Hirani who co-wrote the screenplay with Abhijat Joshi, based on Chetan Bhagat's novel Five Point Someone. Starring Aamir Khan, R. Madhavan, Sharman Joshi, Kareena Kapoor, Boman Irani and Omi Vaidya, the film follows the friendship of three students at an Indian engineering college and is a satire about the social pressures under an Indian education system. Aamir Khan, R. Madhavan, and Sharman Joshi starred for the second time together after Rang De Basanti in 2006. The film is narrated through parallel dramas, one in the present and the other ten years in the past. Produced by Vidhu Vinod Chopra under the banner Vinod Chopra Films, the film incorporated real Indian inventions created by Remya Jose, Mohammad Idris, Jahangir Painter and Sonam Wangchuk. It received critical acclaim and huge commercial success upon its release on 25 December 2009. It was also the highest-grossing film in its opening weekend in India, had the highest opening day collections for an Indian film up until that point and also held the record for the highest net collections in the first week for a Bollywood film. It also became one of the few Indian films at the time to become successful in East Asian markets such as China and Japan, eventually bringing its worldwide gross to ₹3.92 billion ($90 million) - it was the highest-grossing Indian film ever at the time and the highest grossing Indian film of the 2000s. The film also had a social impact on attitudes to education in India, as well as education in other Asian countries such as China. The film won six Filmfare Awards including Best Film and three National Film Awards including Best Popular Film. Overseas, it won the Grand Prize at Japan's Videoyasan Awards while it was nominated for Best Outstanding Foreign Language Film at the Japan Academy Awards and Best Foreign Film at China's Beijing International Film Festival. This film was remade in Tamil as Nanban (2012), which also received critical praise and commercial success. A Mexican remake, 3 Idiotas, was also released in 2017.
